<story>
<title>Cong tried to lure me to get support for LS polls: Mayawati </title>
<date>13-11-2010</date>
<content> LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister  Mayawati on Saturday claimed that Congress offered to withdraw  Taj Corridor and disproportionate assets cases against her for an electoral understanding with  BSP for the 2004 Lok Sabha polls.   The BSP, however, preferred to go to the people's court alone that time, the party supremo said.   She said Congress had offered to withdraw both the cases on coming to power in 2004 in return for a national level understanding with BSP for the elections.   She termed both the cases as conspiracy hatched by the  BJP which, she alleged, tried to pressurise her for having a tie-up leaving 60 of the 80 Lok Sabha seats for BSP in the state.   Mayawati made these remarks at a closed-door meeting of party MPs, MLAs and office bearers, a senior party functionary said.   The chief minister said she had spurned the Congress offer as she always kept BSP movement before her personal interests and would continue to do so till her last breath.   Charging the successive Central governments with misusing official machinery and the CBI against her, Mayawati said she was fighting against it tooth and nail in the Supreme Court.   "In case I fail to get justice from the court and CBI due to Congress pressure, I am confident I will get it in the people's court in the form of votes," she said asking partymen to work hard for gaining support to teach BSP's political adversaries a lesson.   She said ever since her party came to power in the state in 2007, Congress has been meting out step-motherly treatment to her government.   "Realising that BSP has weaned away dalit voters from Congress, its leader Rahul Gandhi has been indulging in theatrics like having dinner with dalits, spending nights in their shanties and undertaking unannounced train journeys to regain the party's moorings," she said.   Criticising the newly appointed chairman of the SC/ST Commission P L Punia, she accused the Congress of ensuring his election to Lok Sabha spending crores of rupees after getting him absolved from the Taj Corridor case and fraudulently framing her.   Asserting that no person will fall prey to such designs of Congress and other parties, she said those supporting these parties would be dubbed "traitors".   She cautioned party leaders to be wary of media which she felt could frame them through sting operations at the behest of political opponents in the run up to the Assembly elections.   In order to refurbish the image of BSP, Mayawati asked partymen not to enroll goons and mafia elements in the party and weed them out in case they were in the organisation. </content>
</story>