<story>
<title>Fracture alert: India faces bone ultimatum </title>
<date>7-6-2010</date>
<content> NEW DELHI: India's burden of fractures caused by arthritis and  osteoporosis is swelling. But the Union health ministry does not seem to be concerned about it. According to a recent report, 4.4 lakh Indians suffer from hip fractures annually while osteoporosis patients number 26 million now, that is projected to increase to 36 million by 2013.   But an  RTI filed by chairman of the  Arthritis Foundation of India Dr Sushil Sharma to find out exactly what the Union health ministry was doing to combat this menace seems to have left the ministry red-faced. The RTI asked a few important questions. Does the ministry have a national statistics for osteoporosis or arthritis and their types?   Does the government have a fracture registry which can pinpoint the burden? Since the government of India is signatory to the  WHO declaration that 2000-2009 is the bone and joint decade, what structured programmes had the ministry planned and implemented? Why has osteoporosis as a topic not been included as part of undergraduate medical syllabus?   In reply, an official of the Union health ministry's statistics division said, "It is intimated that this division does not deal with any information on bone and joint and therefore this information is nil."   Dr Sharma said, "India's efforts to reduce this burden of fractures caused due to bone and joint health is dismal. They prepared no plans or strategy or created no vision at the end of the bone and joint decade. India does not even have a fracture registry and so doesn't even know how many osteoporotic fractures are being handled at various hospitals. A patient of osteoporosis faces a 86% risk of fracture in his lifetime." According to the recent Asian Audit by the International Osteoporosis Foundation, hip fractures have seen a three-fold increase over the past 30 years in Asia. Half of the world's fractures are expected to occur in this region by 2050.   For every man, three women suffer hip fractures every year in India. By 2020, India is estimated to record 6 lakh hip fractures annually — a number that is expected to increase to a million in 2050. Experts say urgent measures are, therefore, required to arrest this steady increase of fractures due to bad bone health.  </content>
</story>