<story>
<title>Malik tweets peace but persists with upside-down tricolour pic </title>
<date>25-7-2010</date>
<content> NEW DELHI: Though Pakistani interior minister  Rehman Malik tweeted two days ago, thanking India for "creating positivity", the picture posted by him on his verified  twitter account/website does not convey the `positivity' on his part.   Consider this: in what can raise suspicions of deliberate disrespect to the Indian flag, his account continues to carry the same photograph, the one of his meeting with his Indian counterpart P Chidambaram, which had the  tricolour  upside down.   The gaffe was captured by lensmen, who were covering the one-on-one meeting on the eve of the SAARC home/interior ministers' conference, on June 25.   It had taken Chidambaram's personal intervention to set the matter straight. Though Chidambaram had played down the matter as a "first visual on a (TV) channel", the persistent use of the same picture shows an uncaring attitude if not downright mischief on the part of the Pakistani interior minister.   But, now it seems the same 'first visual' continues to catch Malik's fancy as evident from his twitter account, which has 3,738 followers from across the world, including India.   Techno-savvy Malik's penchant for the micro-blogging site can be judged not only from the number of followers but also from the kind of diplomatic statements - with Indo-Pak ties thrown in for a good measure - that he tweets regularly.   Seizing upon the criticism of home secretary G K Pillai to shift the blame for the failure of the  Islamabad talks, Malik tweeted on July 22, praising both Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh and Chidambaram for restraining their aides from launching a broadside against Pakistan.   "We appreciate PM India (Manmohan Singh) and home minister India (P Chidambaram) for advising their aides not to give negative statements against Pak. Thanks for creating positivity," Malik tweeted a day after foreign minister S M Krishna surprised many by criticising Pillai in public.   The flag gaffe was not a one-off affair.  Pakistan has had a history of it. Earlier, when a special PIA plane flew in with then Pakistani president  Pervez Musharraf to Jaipur from Islamabad in 2005, the  Indian flag was upside down. The aircraft had the tricolour on one side of its nose and the Pakistan flag on the other.   The Indian flag was placed with the green on top and saffron below. However, the mistake was detected soon after Musharraf and wife Sehba left for Ajmer in a chopper, and was subsequently corrected.   </content>
</story>