<story>
<title>Bollywood actress Neetu Chandra denies links with tainted Pak cricketer Asif </title>
<date>8-9-2010</date>
<content> MUMBAI:  Bollywood actress Neetu Chandra has denied having any links with Pakistani bowler Mohammad Asif, embroiled in the latest spot-fixing controversy that has rocked the world cricket.   Chandra, who found her name being dragged in the spot-fixing scandal, on Wednesday in a statement, read out by her publicist Dale Bhagwagar, denied having any connection with the ongoing controversy or tainted cricketer Asif.   "Neetu personally doesn't know  Mohammad Asif or any other Pakistani cricketer. Her name is unnecessarily being dragged in this whole match-fixing episode. These are unfounded allegations," said Bhagwagar.   On Sunday evening, some TV channels broke the news that a leaked document prepared by  Interpol and  Scotland Yard for the  Pakistan Cricket Board has a call log of all the people who called Mohammad  Asif in 2009.   The channels claimed that the only number from Mumbai found in that log belongs to Neetu. They also reported that two short calls were exchanged between Chandra and Asif on the night of November 7 last year.   "The controversy began when a section of the media leaked a document claiming to be prepared by Interpol and Scotland Yard for the PCB. Apparently this document contains various phone numbers of people who interacted with Asif in 2009.   "The media reported that the only mobile number from Mumbai belongs to Chandra and insinuated that she could be involved in the infamous match-fixing scandal.   "The channels claimed that both the numbers exchanged few SMSes discussing sensitive cricket issues and deals. Neetu has termed all the allegations as frivolous and incorrect. She has no connection with Asif," Bhagwagar said.   Yesterday, reports from Pakistan suggested that Chandra has been questioned by the International Cricket Council's anti-corruption and security unit regarding her alleged links with Asif in the spot-fixing scandal.   Reports also said that Neetu had also been questioned by the ICC officials.   "She was never interrogated by the ICC. Interrogation by ICC's anti-corruption and security unit was never done. These all are incorrect and baseless allegations," Bhagwagar added. </content>
</story>