<story>
<title>Naxals warn of more Dantewadas </title>
<date>15-5-2010</date>
<content> NEW DELHI: In its first official statement since the biggest-ever attack on security forces on April 6 in Dantewada, CPI (Maoist) has congratulated its army, the PLGA, for its big success and "heroic" act of "wiping out 80 CRPF mercenaries" while warning of more such attacks.   The statement, issued by party spokesperson Azad on behalf of the central committee (CC) of the party, said, "Hail the daring and biggest-ever guerrilla attack on the hired mercenaries of the state carried out by the heroic PLGA guerrillas in Chhattisgarh." It blamed the "Sonia-Manohan-Chidambaram-Pranab gang" for loss of lives of "CRPF jawans used as cannon-fodder" by the state.   The PLGA guerrillas had "created history by wiping out an entire company of the central paramilitary force in Dantewada", the party statement said, acknowleding that a "huge cache of highly sophisticated arms and ammunition" was seized from the security forces that included "mortars and LMGs".   "The CC sends its heartiest revolutionary greetings to the brave warriors of PLGA who have given a fitting reply to Chidambaram and nailed his lie that Operation Green Hunt is a myth invented by media," Azad's statement said.   Warning of more such attacks if the government continued with its offensive against Maoists, the party said, "As long as their fascist mindset refuses to see the socio-politico-economic roots of Naxalism... Dantewada-type attacks will continue at an even greater frequency and intensity... the Maoist revolutionary counter-violence will take on new and deadly forms which state-sponsored terror cannot even imagine."   Justifying Dantewada, the Maoist party said, "It is a logical culmination of the unending provocation by uniformed goondas sent by Chidambaram and  Raman Singh to adivasi areas to create a reign of terror. In just eight months, 114 innocent unarmed adivasis were abducted, tortured and murdered in cold blood," enclosing a list of names of the 114 people.   "The security forces have kept in their illegal custody at least 20-30 adivasis from every village. Whenever they feel the need to show some success over  Maoists in terms of body count, some of these adivasi captives are bumped off with the claim that the forces had killed Maoist guerrillas in fierce encounters," the Maoists claimed.   Blaming the government for the death of CRPF men in Dantewada, the statement said, "The sole responsibility... lies with Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram-Pranab gang and the saffron terrorist Raman Singh... using them as cannon-fodder in their dirty war against the Maoist model of development and in their hunt for the mineral wealth of the adivasi regions."   Addressing the security forces, the party said, "The CC, while offering its heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families of dead jawans, appeals to paramilitary personnel to realise they are being used... in this war."   Realising they may be losing mass support by killing, the party said, "We appeal to all peace-loving, democratic-minded organisations and individuals to understand the context in which Maoists are compelled to annihilate security forces... creating a reign of terror in adivasi areas armed with mortars, LMGs and grenades."  </content>
</story>