<story>
<title>Pune blast: Cell found at site triggered blast </title>
<date>24-2-2010</date>
<content>MUMBAI/PUNE: Investigators are certain that a mobile phone, found in a burnt and shattered condition at the site of the  German Bakery blast in Pune, was the trigger for the February 13 terrorist attack that took 15 lives and injured 54 people.A senior official involved in the investigation, who did not wish to be named, said the investigators have no doubt that the phone, which was recovered from the blast site and which does not appear to be of a Chinese make, was used by the terrorists.The mangled mobile phone has been sent for forensic analysis, the official said. "The mobile was almost shattered, but we are trying to get some clues from it," said the senior official. An investigator said that it appears that no calls had been made, or SMSs sent, to the mobile phone for at least one week prior to the blast.Senior investigators, who have been facing criticism for not breaking ground in the probe, have remained tight-lipped about the case after reportedly receiving instructions from the Centre to not speak on the issue.While the senior security official said investigators are sure the recovered phone was used to trigger the blast, they are still unsure about how the bomb was actually set off. Officials suspect that either a call was made to the phone, an SMS was sent or the phone's alarm clock was set to deliver the current that resulted in the explosion. "We cannot say anything until we get the forensic report," said a senior official.A mobile phone was used as the trigger in the Hyderabad Mecca Masjid blast of 2007. In that blast, a call was made to the mobile phone connected to the bomb and, as soon as it rang, the bomb exploded. Mobile phones were also suspected to have been used in the 2008 serial blasts in Agartala."It is too early to say whether the mobile phone was used as a clock or whether the method used in Hyderabad was adopted in this blast as well," an official said.An earlier forensic report has already stated that the bomb contained a mix of RDX, ammonium nitrate and petroleum hydrocarbon oil, a combination that had been detected in bombs exploded in the 2006 and 2008 Malegaon blasts and the July 11, 2006 Mumbai train blasts.Forensic and bomb detection experts from seven state and central agencies are independently examining the samples collected from the blast site to uncover details about the trigger mechanism and quantum of explosives. None of these agencies, including the elite National Security Guards (NSG), have furnished their reports as yet. Pune police chief Satya Pal Singh said the experts need time to complete their experiments and analyses.According to Singh, apart from the men from the NSG's National Bomb Detection Centre, experts from the State Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), the Indian Army, the Central Reserve Police Force unit at Talegaon near Pune, the CBI's Central FSL, the Andhra Pradesh FSL and the Ahmedabad FSL have examined the blast site.Singh, who was briefed by an Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) officer about the probe so far, said that investigators have had elaborate discussions with experts from all these agencies and have a definite line of action to follow. "The written reports will come later. So far, none has been received," he said. "The  ATS will take a call on which report they should pursue."Was Pune blast an intelligence failure?</content>
</story>